---
title: 1.22 PQI Road Segment (detail)
created: '2020-11-12T12:21:16.724703'
modified: '2020-11-12T12:21:16.724713'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Engineering And Transportation
  - Pavement Quality Index Pm 1 22
  - Safe And Secure Communities
  - Transit
  - Transportation
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: 'https://data.tempe.gov/datasets/df8ccf6276f84976abcad20ba0cfe5f6_0.csv'
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div>Tempe’s roadways are an important means of transportation for residents, the workforce, students, and visitors. Tempe measures the quality and condition of its roadways using a Pavement Quality Index (PQI). This measure, rated from a low of 0 to a high of 100, is used by the City to plan for maintenance and repairs, and to allocate resources in the most efficient way possible.</div><div><br /></div><div>This measure is created using pavement quality data maintained in the RoadMatrix Pavement Management Program. About every three years, the City surveys pavement, such as the smoothness of roadways and any signs of distress in the pavement surface. This data is then used to calculate the PQI, which determines roadway maintenance prioritization schedules as well as the most optimal road treatment options (such as placing a filler material in the cracks and treating the entire pavement surface, milling and replacing the top layer of the asphalt pavement, reconstructing the street section)<br /></div><div><br /></div><div>This page provides data for the performance measure related to PQI.  To access geospatial data regarding PQI please visit <a href='https://data.tempe.gov/dataset/pavement-quality-index-segments' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>https://data.tempe.gov/dataset/pavement-quality-index-segments</a><br /></div><div><br /></div><div>The performance measure dashboard is available at <a href='https://safe-and-secure-communities-tempegov.hub.arcgis.com/pages/pavement-quality-index' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>1.22 Pavement Quality Index</a><br /></div><div><br /></div><div>This dataset provides PQI for inpidual road segments.<br /></div><div><br /></div><div>The City of Tempe’s Asset Management Capital Maintenance Program oversees and distributes funds for the upkeep of infrastructure such as streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters. Roadway network conditions are evaluated by assigned a value using the Pavement Quality Index or PQI. Calculated on a scale ranging from 0 (worst) to 100 (best), the PQI is an indication of the condition of the pavement structure.<br /></div><div><br /></div><div><b>Additional Information</b></div><div><br /></div><div>Source: Stantec/Road Matrix</div><div><br /></div><div>Contact (author): Isaac Chavira</div><div><br /></div><div>Contact E-Mail (author): isaac_chavira@tempe.gov</div><div><br /></div><div>Contact (maintainer): Sue Taaffe</div><div><br /></div><div>Contact E-Mail (maintainer): sue_taaffe@tempe.gov</div><div><br /></div><div>Data Source Type: CSV</div><div><br /></div><div>Preparation Method: Extracted from Roadmatrix and joined to GIS network</div><div><br /></div><div>Publish Frequency: Annual (Average PQI)/Quarterly (Segment PQI)</div><div><br /></div><div>Publish Method: Manual</div><div><br /></div><div><a href='https://gis.tempe.gov/design/data-dictionary/1.22%20PQI%20Road%20Segment%20(detail)/' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>Data Dictionary</a><br /></div><div><br /></div>
